.\" Manpage for asbt.
.\" Contact aaditya_gnulinux@zoho.com.
.TH ASBT 8 "4 Mar 2015" "1.4" "asbt man page"
.SH NAME
asbt \- a tool to manage packages in your local slackbuilds repository
.SH SYNOPSIS
asbt <option> [package]
.SH DESCRIPTION
asbt acts like a package manager for your local copy of slackbuilds,
which can be obtained from http://slackbuilds.org (SBo).

It supports searching for packages in the repository, viewing details about packages, installing or removing them, and other options.

Using the package path instead of the package name is also possible.
.SH OPTIONS
.nf
[search,-s] <pkg> 
	Search the repository for given package.

[query,-q] <pkg|--sbo|--all>
	Query whether given package is installed.

[find,-f] <pkg>
	find = search + query given SBo package.

[info,-i] <pkg>
	Read the info page for given package.

[readme,-r] <pkg>
	Read the README for given package.

[desc,-d] <pkg>
	View the description of the package.

[view,-v] <pkg>
	View the SlackBuild for given package.

[goto,-g] <pkg>
	Goto the given package directory.

[list,-l] <pkg>
	List files inside the folder of given package.

[longlist,-L] <pkg>
	List more details about the files inside the package folder.

[enlist,-e] <pkg>
	Enlist all packages which have given package in their .info file

[track,-t] <pkg>
	Track the source and built package for specified package.

[get,-G] <pkg1> <pkg2> ..
	Download the package(s).

[build,-B] <pkg1> <pkg2> ..
	Build the package.

[install,-I] <pkg1> <pkg2> ..
	Install the package(s).

[details,-D] <pkg>
	Details about installed package.

[upgrade,-U] <pkg1> <pkg2> ..
	Upgrade the package(s).

[remove,-R] <pkg1> <pkg2> ..
	Remove the package(s).

[process,-P] <pkg1> <pkg2> ..
	process = get + build + install/upgrade the package(s).

[process,-P] --upgrade,-u
	process and update all outdated packages

[tidy,-T] [--dry-run] src/pkg
	Tidy the srcdir or pkgdir, ie, remove old source or built packages.
.fi
.PP
.nf
[--update,-u] 
	Update the local slackbuilds repository via git from SBo.

[--check,-c] [all]
	Check for upgrades to installed packages.

[--help,-h]
	Read the help.

[--setup,-S]
	Setup the options for the tool.

[--version,-V]
	Echo program version.

[--changelog,-C]
	View the ChangeLog.txt file in the slackbuilds repository.
.fi
.SH VARIABLES
The following variables are used (in the script) :
.PP
.nf
1) repodir="$HOME/slackbuilds"
 # Repository for slackbuilds.

2) srcdir="$HOME/src"
 # Where the downloaded source packages are to be placed.
 # Leave it blank for saving it in the same directory as the slackbuild.

3) outdir="$HOME/packages"
 # Where the build package will be placed. 
 # Leave it blank for putting it in /tmp.

4) gitdir="$HOME/slackbuilds/.git"
 # Directory where the slackbuilds git repository is present.

5) editor="/usr/bin/vim" 
 # Editor for viewing/editing slackbuilds.

6) buildflags="MAKEFLAGS=-j2"
 # Build flags specified while building a package

7) ignore=""
 # Packages to ignore when checking for updates.

Samples for these variables are present in the script itself.
These can be overrided by specifying the options provided
in the configuration file "/etc/asbt/asbt.conf".
.fi
.SH RETURN VALUES (Not completely strict)
.nf
0 : Performed intended operation. 
1 : Failed to perform intended operation.
.fi
.SH EXAMPLES
.nf
asbt search dosbox (search for package dosbox)
asbt info dosbox (read the info page for package dosbox)
asbt get dosbox (get or download the dosbox source code)
asbt view dosbox (view the dosbox slackbuild)
asbt build dosbox (build the dosbox package)
asbt install dosbox (install the built dosbox package)
asbt install dosbox-0.74 (install specified version of the package)
asbt details dosbox (view details about installed package dosbox)
asbt query dosbox (query is dosbox is installed or not)
asbt query --sbo (query all SBo packages)
asbt query --all (query all packages)
asbt update (update git repository of slackbuilds)
asbt --all (view all packages installed from the slackbuilds repository)
asbt --check (check for updates to installed packages from SBo)
asbt --check all (check all packages for updates to packages from SBo)
asbt -P --upgrade # check for and update out of date packages
asbt tidy --dry-run src # check for old source packages
.fi
.SH SEE ALSO
installpkg(8),upgradepkg(8),removepkg(8),sudo(8)

