.\" Manpage for slack.
.\" Contact aaditya_gnulinux@zoho.com.
.TH SLACK 1 "13 Jan 2014" "0.2.1" "slack man page"
.SH NAME
slack \- a package manager for your local slackbuilds repository
.SH SYNOPSIS
slack <option> [package]
.SH DESCRIPTION
slack acts like a package manager for your local copy of slackbuilds.
(usually obtained from slackbuilds.org).

It supports searching a package in your repository, viewing details about that package, and installing or removing it.

For full list of functions see the README.
.SH OPTIONS
.nf
[search,-s] 
	Search the repository for given package.

[info,-i] 
	Read the info page for given package.

[readme,-r] 
	Read the README for given package.

[goto,-g] 
	Goto the given package directory.

[view,-v] 
	View the SlackBuild for given package.

[list,-l] 
	List files inside the folder of given package.

[desc,-d] 
	View the description of the package.

[get,-G] 
	Download the package.

[build,-B] 
	Build the package.

[install,-I] 
	Install the package.

[upgrade,-U] 
	Upgrade the package.

[remove,-R] 
	Remove the package.

[query,-q]
	Query whether given package is installed.
.fi
.PP
.nf
[--update,-u] 
	Update the local slackbuilds git repository.

[--all,-a] 
	View all packages present in the repository.

[--help,-h]
	Read the help.

[--version]
	Echo program version.
.fi
.SH VARIABLES
The following variables are used (in the script) :
.PP
.nf
1) repodir=""
 # Repository for slackbuilds

2) srcpath=""
 # Where the downloaded source packages are to be placed.
 # Leave it blank for saving in the same directory as the slackbuild.

3) outpath=""
 # Where the build package will be placed. 
 # Leave it blank for putting them in /tmp.

4) gitdir=""
 # Directory where slackbuilds git repository is present.
.fi
.SH RETURN VALUES
.nf
0 : Performed intended operation. 
1 : Failed to perform intended operation.
.fi
.SH EXAMPLES
.nf
slack search dosbox (search for package dosbox)
slack info dosbox (read the info page for package dosbox)
slack get dosbox (get or download the dosbox source code)
slack view dosbox (view the dosbox slackbuild)
slack build dosbox (build the dosbox package)
slack install dosbox (install the built dosbox package)
slack update (update git repository of slackbuilds)
.fi
.SH SEE ALSO
installpkg(8),upgradepkg(8),removepkg(8),sudo(8)
